And welcome back.
We're gonna get into some more advanced tags and probably the most important tag that you'll use other
than the ones that we've covered so far are tags that we need to create forms.
As you know when you go to Web sites usually there's some sort of a log gain or registration form so
we're gonna build that out today to get started.
Let's just create a new file here.
We'll save it and call it register dot H2 AML on our desktop perfect and we know that we want a nice
team also we use our little shortcut and we'll title it register save that.
And now in the index start a simple file.
Let's add a another link that references register dot ACM L and L just say here.
Register.
All right.
We'll save both of these files and let's refresh.
We have register click register while we have nothing yet but it looks like it's working.
Let's add this on our new line just because it looks pretty or that way.
So to do that if you remember we're going to add a brake tag.
So let's refresh.
There you go.
We have a new page and register.
Let's build out this form for you go in to register dot a simple the way we write forms in a CML while
conveniently there's a form tag.
But this form tag itself it needs to have the actual form inside of it.
So what kind of form elements do we have.
Well again if we remember our good old friend w C. Let's type in forms and we can see over here that
we have a shim or forms and refresh.
We'll make that full screen and you can see over here that there's a ton of information on it but you
can look that up yourself.
For now I'm going to introduce you to the most common ones probably the ones that you'll use 90 percent
of the time.
The first one as we do with any form and let's go to that page for now is what we want to enter our
name.
So how do we do that.
We have a input tag that has a type of text because well our name will be in text form and we can close
that off.
And it's actually a self closing tag.
So now if I save and refresh.
OK.
We have a little box here.
Hopefully you can see that but.
Well we should probably title it because we won't know what to answer that way.
So we're gonna put in here we're gonna say first name semicolon and save.
Let's refresh.
We have a first name.
And now let's make this a little bit bigger.
There you go.
Now you can enter your name in here awesome.
Well let's let's add another one for last name
and again we'll have our input type.
So that's an attribute and a value of text
and if we refresh we have last name.
OK.
But it kind of looks ugly remember that h t email just reads line by line and doesn't really know that
we want a space here.
So again we can add a brake tag here and refresh and we have first name and last name.
OK.
That's that's fairly self-explanatory.
Now what else do we have in a form.
We have e-mail.
So let's let's add another field which is email and we'll do input.
Again type calls text or add another break here because we're gonna need that spacing and let's save
refresh.
Awesome OK.
So we have our general registration form and obviously with any form we need some sort of buttons right
like we need to submit this somewhere so we can register.
Well again there's a nice input type for that.
So we do input instead of a text type.
There is a submit type so this if we add another break in here and I see this I refresh it has a smith
button.
Now.
Where did this submit come from.
Well when you put an input type submit it automatically creates a button.
And if you don't specify what to say I'll just have this text.
But we can change that.
So we can put value and we'll put register save that refresh.
We now have a register button OK.
But what if we make mistakes in this field we write stuff and what we want to reset this for again.
There's a now input for that and the type of that input as you can imagine is reset.
So now if we close this and other break in here actually we can keep that on the same line.
We'll save refresh and we have reset.
So now if I type in anything in here and let's say I don't want to.
Well I don't like this I need to reset the form.
I can just click reset and it clears everything for us.
You may be asking yourself you know what.
What happens when we click register before we get into that.
I want to just go through all the common input types and then we'll click registers to see what happens
with the e mail we ideally want first of all for it to be required so that when you click register if
you haven't provided an email it won't let you register and there's an attribute that we can use for
that.
And that is required and here we don't actually have to specify a value because automatically it's assumed
that required equals to true which means that this form field is required.
So if I say that I refresh and I leave it blank and I click register will say please fill out this field.
Now we also want to make sure that it's a an appropriate email field.
So if I type something like this we still want to make sure that you know this is an incorrect email
we don't want to register so the input type of text that I told you for e-mail is actually wrong.
There's a specific one that we can use which is as you can imagine email.
So now if I refresh and type in something that's not an email and I click register I'll say please include
an app and the immunologists very nice.
It's kind of like magic it does this for you which is very very nice let's expand on our knowledge of
inputs and add a few more fields that will most likely need usually one m no somebodies birthday.
So let's add birthday here and for this input type let's do type
date so if I say this and I refresh at that we have a nice little dick picker so I can pick anything
in here.
All right.
What else do we need.
We also need gender so we'll do input type and for gender.
While there's no specific input type for gender but there is something called Radio and Radio is as
the name suggest radio buttons.
So now click refresh and.
Well I have one radio button but we ideally want to have options right.
So how do we do that.
So for the radio we also need to say whether it's male or female let's have within the gender.
We're gonna have a break over here in the line and we'll say input type radio and we'll say male.
And we also want female and we also want
and when we refreshes we have male female and other BI You see a problem here.
I just click the radio buttons and I can't deselect them and ideally you can own.
You should only be able to select one.
And right now the way the radio buttons are they don't know of each other's exist and we want to make
sure that they know that they're connected their family and only one of them can be picked.
So how do we do that the way we do that is through the name attribute.
So for the name we'll say gender and this name attribute needs to match on all the radio buttons so
that they know they are together they're part of the gender input field.
So if I safe here and refresh now you can see that I can only select one.
All right.
Perfect.
What else should he have.
Well let's say I really want to know if you have pets with pets.
We're gonna have inputs type.
Well we can have multiple pets so won't be radio buttons we want checkbox so checkbox we wanted to have
cats or lizards but cat and we want to have
can type today
checkbox and we want to have dogs so let's save that.
Let's refresh and look about.
We have pets but this time is checkboxes which means I can select multiple.